# DRP_IntegrativeSystemsVaccinologyDengue

Codes include R scripts used in this manuscript

Abstract
Dengue is a global health problem that affects approximately 400 million people yearly. Still, neither specific therapy nor a vaccine is currently available or approved to combat dengue virus (DENV) infection. Here we performed a comprehensive analysis of publicly available transcriptome data of patients with natural DENV infection (NDI) and DENV vaccine trials (DVT1, DVT2, and DVT3), identifying common transcriptional and pathways signatures according to the time of infection and disease severity in NDI and time of initiating DVT1. We identified 237 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between NDI and DVT1. Of those, 28 and 60 DEGs were commonly affected by dengue vaccination during DVT2 and DVT3, respectively, 20 of them intersecting across all three DVTs. These DEGs markedly enrich the antiviral innate immune responses, type I and II interferon signaling, the regulation of cytokines, apoptosis, and T cell differentiation. Random Forest analysis ranked 10 of these 20 common DEGs as NDI's most critical predictors of disease severity. DEGs such as IFIT5, ISG15, and HERC5, which play an essential role in the anti-viral immune response, showed constant upregulation at acute time points across the three DVT data sets. Hence, this work provides new insight into the overlap between NDI and vaccine-induced immune response, suggesting new targets for developing specific therapies against DENV and monitoring the effectiveness of anti-dengue vaccination.
Keywords: Dengue, Vaccine, Transcriptional overlap, Immune response
